Among the Betrayed is a 2002 novel by Margaret Peterson Haddix, about a time in which drastic measures have been taken to quell overpopulation. It is the third of seven novels in the Shadow Children series.Among the Betrayed by Margaret Peterson Haddix is the third book in the Shadow Children series. Unlike the first, it is not told from the viewpoint of Luke, but instead from that of Nina Idi, the shadow child who was arrested with Jason at the end of Among the Impostors. Unlike Jason, who was a member of the Population Police, Nina is another third child who became Jason's pawn.Previously, Nina had left a dreary but emotionally comfortable life with her three aunts and grandmother, and was sent to live at Harlow School for Girls. After she fell in love with Jason, a boy at Hendricks School for Boys, she was accused of trying to find shadow children in her school and was arrested by the Population Police along with Jason.Nina wakes up in a jail cell. She is given two choices from a Population Police official she calls The Hating Man. He says "get three other prisoners to admit they are shadow children and be spared, or refuse to cooperate and be killed immediately". Emotionally torn, she is moved into a different cell with three other children, Matthias, Percy, and Alia, who are ten, nine, and six years old. They are shadow children who have been living on the streets, and who have no chance of living.As Nina cautiously befriends them, she struggles with Jason's betrayal and whether or not she should betray her new cell mates to save her own life. She chooses to help the three of them and all four children escape. They find their way to Hendricks School for Boys. The children hide by the outdoor garden Lee Grant planted until they are caught by him and Trey. Nina trusts Matthias, Percy and Alia so much that she spares them and stays there to let the others go. However, even when she gives them a chance to escape, they stay with her. The Hating Man reveals himself to be Mr. Talbot, a double agent. He had put Nina through a test to see if she really was a shadow child and ready to take a side; she passes. Mr. Talbot also reveals that Jason did not betray her and is not dead, but is still working for the Population Police. Finally, Nina volunteers to fight the Population Police.</gallery>