The Lottery Rose is a novel by Irene Hunt, (A Winning Newbery Award Author).[citation needed] It was published in 1976. This book is sometimes recommended for middle school children and up.[citation needed]Sister Mary Angela, the head of the school Georgie attends, tries to help Georgie by finding a place to plant the rosebush elsewhere. However, Georgie strongly believes that Mrs. Harper's garden is the rightful place for the rosebush to be planted in. On one night, Georgie stealthily sneaks out of the school building and takes the rosebush to Mrs. Harper's garden. There, he secretly plants it there and returns to his bed at school with a satisfied feeling. However, Mrs. Harper finds the rosebush planted in her own garden along with her prized lilies destroyed by Georgie while he was planting the rosebush. Georgie confronts Mrs. Harper, who threatens to burn the rosebush if she sees it in her garden again. His deep affection to the rosebush drives him to threaten back at Mrs. Harper, and he gets a nervous breakdown. During this breakdown, however, Mrs. Harper happens to see Georgie's accidentally uncovered back, with horrible bruises and other gruesome details. Mrs. Harper becomes very sympathetic to Georgie, and from that incident, tries to help Georgie whenever possible.Georgie changed emotionally in many different ways, such as when he had no friends while living with his mother, Rennie Burgess, because he was called stupid and retarted. On the other hand, at the all-boys school, he made many friends that respected and adored his rosebush. When Steve gave Georgie all those wounds ever since then, he was scared to tell anyone about what he did until he told his friend named Timothy. Timothy is another boy at the all-boys school who understands Georgie. Georgie also meets a young boy named Robin,who cannot speak and also knows Timothy, except for a few words that Paul (his brother) taught. Mr. Collier happens to be Robin's grandfather. Georgie encourages Robin to speak more. They develop a strong bondage towards each other, and they spend lots of time together, doing activities that they both like, especially feeding the ducks at the pond. In the end, Georgie opens up to both himself and Mrs. Harper. Robin unfortunately drowns, causing Georgie to look back on Robin's last few months. After Robin passes, Georgie switches the location of his rose bush from the garden to Robin's grave. Robin drowns by going to feed the ducks without Georgie and the ducks pull him in the water face first. Sadly, Robin had died.Characters Georgie Burgess - protagonist, a little boy who doesn't have a Dad and his mom is a drunkerd, her boy friend, Steve hates Georgie and beats him every time he sees him, the only happiness he has in the beginning of the book is flowers, especially roses Rennie Burgess - Georgie's mom, keeps Steve around only for the little amount of money he gives her when he visits Steve - Rennie's boyfriend-The man who beats Georgie, almost kills him many times Miss Ellen Ames - Georgie's school librarian, loves Georgie and lets him keep a small picture book, it has no words but it has pictures of flowers in it, Georgie's one true love Miss Cressman - Georgie's 1st grade teacher, hates Georgie because Georgie never listened in class and set fire to her car Mrs. Sims - Georgie's neighbor loves Georgie and takes him in for a while after Steve almost beats Georgie to death Judge O' Neill - the judge for Georgie's case Sister Mary Angela - The principal nun at Georgie's new school, nice lady and tries her very hard to give Georgie the love he was deprived of in the early stages of his life Sister Monica - a nun at Georgie's new school Timothy - Georgie's friend at the new school, Georgie trusts Timothy with a secrate that he had never shown or told anyone before, his scars from the beatings Steve gave him Mrs. Molly Harper - a lady who lives across the street from the new school, made the mistake of hurting Georgie's rose bush, Georgie hates her and she tries to get back on his good side again when she accidentally sees his scars Paul - Molly's deceased son, Robin's brother Mr. Harper - Molly's deceased husband Rosita - Molly's housekeeper Mr. Hugh Collier - Molly's father (Robin's grandfather) taught Georgie how to read(up until eight years old, Georgie could not read) Robert (Robin) - Molly's son (young & slow) can not talk, was Paul's brother, he loved ducks and playing with Paul, when Paul died, he saw Georgie and immedeatly loved him just as much as he loved his brother Paul Amanda- Robin's babysitter, also called lazy Amanda Old Eddie - Molly's gardener, takes Georgie in and turns him into his "apprentice" as a gardener