The Pendragon Adventure is a young adult series of science fiction/fantasy novels by D. J. MacHale published from 2001-2010. The series consists of ten books.They follow the chronicles of Bobby Pendragon, an American teenager who discovers that he, as well as his two best friends, Mark Dimond and Courtney Chetwynde, must prevent the destruction of the ten "territories": distinct but interrelated space-time realities. Each book deals with the battle over a particular territory, fought between Bobby's side—including the lead protectors of each territory, called Travelers—and the forces of Saint Dane, a demon who exploits a decisive "turning point" in each territory's history. At this turning point, Saint Dane steps in to guide each territory towards utter destruction; it is up to Bobby Pendragon and his allies to stop or reverse Saint Dane's sinister efforts.The series has ten books: The Merchant of Death, The Lost City of Faar, The Never War, The Reality Bug , Black Water, The Rivers of Zadaa, The Quillan Games, The Pilgrims of Rayne, Raven Rise, and The Soldiers of Halla. The novels use the first-person journals in which Bobby Pendragon recounts the events of his adventure to his loyal friends as well as a third-person narrative to tell the stories of characters other than Bobby. Each book of the series repeatedly alternates between these two narrative techniques.The first five books in the series, The Merchant of Death (2001), The Lost City of Faar (2001), The Never War (2002), The Reality Bug (2002), and Black Water (2003) were originally published in paperback by Aladdin Paperbacks. The remaining five books, The Rivers of Zadaa (2005), The Quillian Games (2006), The Pilgrims of Rayne (2007), Raven Rise (2008), and The Soldiers of Halla (2010) were all originally published in hardback by Simon and Schuster. As of 2011, all books have been released in both formats.On his official site, MacHale stated that he had finished the first draft of the last book, and said it would be a "killer finale." It was released on May 12, 2009. He also announced that the first graphic novel based on the Pendragon series would be released around the time of the ninth book, and that a short series of books meant to be companions to the series will be released, with the release of the first companion book scheduled for before the release of book ten. This short series has since been released as a trilogy, written by authors other than MacHale, called Pendragon: Before the War.