The Asylum for Wayward Victorian Girls is an autobiographical/psychological thriller novel by Emilie Autumn. It was published in 2009 as a companion to her 2009–2010 North American, European, and Australian tour, the Asylum Tour. The fully illustrated book chronicles Autumn's experiences in a mental ward and a young girl (Emily with a "y") in Victorian England who is admitted into an insane asylum.The book itself is highly elaborate and (as of the first printing) is in full color, featuring Emilie Autumn's sketches and paintings as well as photographs taken by Autumn herself and by various other photographers. There was talk of a full audio version of the book, read by Autumn, but this has yet to materialize. On the 2008 EP "4o'clock" there are two tracks of Autumn reading sections of the book, accompanied by sound effects and music.On August 1, 2010, a second edition of the book became available for pre-order. The next day, Autumn announced that all books that are to be shipped to North America will include a bookplate sticker hand signed by Emilie herself, and all books being shipped outside of North America will have a signed postcard with it. The second edition is available at her official store The Asylum Emporium.During an interview with Mulatschag, Emilie states, "[...] which now my big project after this is the full on theatrical musical production of my book The Asylum for Wayward Victorian Girls [...] and that is being turned into by me—by us, a whole broadway style theatrical production: 3 hours long, a cast of 40 people. With the aim to debut that in 2014. Starting --but going worldwide-- starting on London's West End theater district. " She later confirms that she will be playing both roles of Modern Emilie and Victorian Emily, as well as a later movie which will spawn from the musical. When asked in an interview with Metal Blast if her 2012 Fight Like a Girl tour was a preview to the upcoming musical, Emilie confirmed this to be true and said "[...] [The tour] was about me, with the help of my girls on stage, to kind of set the tone and the atmosphere to what all of this crazy asylum world is about, this kind of unique genre-bending musical style and me having a unique perspective of life (at least I’d like to think that). Now that this stage has been set, it’s all about telling a story, which has become more important even than, as crazy as it may seem, the music. [...]"On March 13, 2014, the audio book edition for The Asylum for Wayward Victorian Girls became available for pre-order, set to ship in May, 2014. It includes limited edition packaging and exclusive artwork, and is personally autographed by Emilie. It is a multi-CD set and is narrated entirely by the author.