Fun Home (subtitled A Family Tragicomic) is a 2006 graphic memoir by American writer Alison Bechdel, author of the comic strip Dykes to Watch Out For. It chronicles the author's childhood and youth in rural Pennsylvania, United States, focusing on her complex relationship with her father. The book addresses themes of sexual orientation, gender roles, suicide, dysfunctional family life, and the role of literature in understanding oneself and one's family. Writing and illustrating Fun Home took seven years, in part because of Bechdel's laborious artistic process, which includes photographing herself in poses for each human figure.Fun Home has been both a popular and critical success, and spent two weeks on the New York Times Best Seller list. In The New York Times Sunday Book Review, Sean Wilsey called it "a pioneering work, pushing two genres (comics and memoir) in multiple new directions." Several publications named Fun Home as one of the best books of 2006; it was also included in several lists of the best books of the 2000s. It was nominated for several awards, including the National Book Critics Circle Award and three Eisner Awards (one of which it won). A French translation of Fun Home was serialized in the newspaper Libération; the book was an official selection of the Angoulême International Comics Festival and has been the subject of an academic conference in France. Fun Home has been the subject of numerous academic publications in areas such as biography studies and cultural studies, as part of a larger turn towards serious academic investment in the study of comics/sequential art.Fun Home also generated controversy: a public library in Missouri removed Fun Home from its shelves for five months after local residents objected to its contents, and the book's use in universities in Utah and South Carolina has been challenged.The sequel to Fun Home, titled Are You My Mother?: A Comic Drama, traces Bechdel's relationship with her mother.A musical play adapted from the book, entitled Fun Home, began its run at The Public Theater on Sept. 30, 2013, officially opening on Oct. 22, 2013. Originally scheduled to run through Nov. 3, 2013, the run was extended multiple times and the play closed on January 12, 2014. The book and lyrics were written by Obie Award-winning playwright Lisa Kron, and the score was composed by Tony Award-nominated Jeanine Tesori. The production was directed by Sam Gold. It has been called "the first mainstream musical about a young lesbian."