A Course in Miracles (also referred to as ACIM or the Course) is a self-study curriculum which aims to assist its readers in achieving spiritual transformation. According to the introduction to the Workbook section of the book, the Text section was required since "A theoretical foundation such as the Text is necessary as a background to make these exercises meaningful", whereas the Workbook itself is to "train the mind to think along the lines which the course sets forth and to a different perception of everything in the world". ACIM tells us it aims to "remove the blocks to the awareness of love's presence, which is your inheritance". The book has been described by some as a non-dualistic philosophy, and by others as the Third Testament, with many students accepting neither characterization. The introduction to the book contains the following summary: "Nothing real can be threatened. Nothing unreal exists. Herein lies the peace of God."While there is no author clearly listed in the original print edition of the book, Helen Schucman (a psychologist) in fact wrote down the book with the help of William Thetford (also a psychologist), based on what Schucman called an "inner voice" which she identified as Jesus, and which is identified at some points within the pages of the book as "Christ Jesus". The most popular edition, the Foundation for Inner Peace (FIP) 3rd edition (based on copies sold) is published by the organization chosen by Schucman for this purpose. Other non-FIP editions, which derive from pre-publication manuscripts and also from copyright free portions of the ACIM text are also available from other publishers, including evolving international translations and audio-books. The full 3rd FIP edition consists of 5 sections, the Text, the Workbook for Students, the Manual for Teachers, the Clarification of Terms, and the Supplements. The first three sections account for approximately 95% of the material. The FIP reports that 2.5 million copies of A Course in Miracles have been printed and disseminated worldwide since it first became available for sale in 1976. Additionally, the FIP edition has been translated into twenty-four different languages with eight new translations underway.